Now we can go save Chrome!
It's a living iron creature
built from nothing.
Steam engine
acquired!!
Out of the way!
It'll run you over!
Seriously, you'll get hurt real bad!
Everyone, stay away!
"Hurt real bad," my ass!
All this thing ever does is run.
It's no match for my number one power!
Look out!
Magma and the iron steam engine
creature are going to duke it out.
This'll be interesting.
You don't scare me!
Magma!
What are you, mental?
Why would you think you
could stop a steam engine?
It's like a living creature.
Yeah. A creature with incredible strength.
It's like a gorilla!
Yeah, even more like one than Kohaku-chan!
Isn't this Chrome's role?
Come back home, Chrome.
Now we can all go help Chrome.
Yeah.
Once the engine's done, the rest
of the car won't be hard to build.
It's the power beast of science: Steam Gorilla.
Well, then...
This village has been great to me.
But it's goodbye for now.
Senku...
We don't have time to be getting sentimental.
We're throwing all our science gear on board
and heading to the
Tsukasa Empire, one and all!
This is exhilarating.
Let me go, you...
That hurt, you bastard!
What, do you really think you can
trust this wimpy bamboo cage?
Don't go crying about it later!
Tsukasa-kun, why are we keeping
him here, so out in the open?
I-It's so shaky!
It's going to collapse!
All our cargo's going to fall apart!
O-O-Oh, God!
Wh-Wh-Why am I the test driver?
You're the only one who
has a driver's license.
Driver's license?! In this world?!
Gotta obey traffic laws.
You're surprisingly upright, huh?
I didn't think that for one millisecond.
Which is it?!
I don't think wooden wheels are
going to hold up, are they?
We aren't driving on paved roads.
What are we doing for tires?
Don't worry!
We're all working hard!
We're doing hexagonal bamboo weaves!
Bamboo?
What is this?
Yeah, they're the airless tires developed
by NASA for planetary exploration.
And they're made from bamboo weave.
You say that like we should all have
heard of them, but I had no idea.
And there we have it!
It's done!
The Steam Gorilla!
Automobile
acquired!!
I'm confused, but it looks so cool!
Yeah, I'm confused, but it does look cool.
Sure, it's amazing, and I'm impressed too,
but what's with their enthusiasm?
You can't blame them.
Not when it comes to making machines.
Old Man Kaseki seems really sad.
We need to hurry up and go free Chrome.
I can't help but feel sorry for him.
Tsukasa needs him as a hostage,
but it's hard to say how
he might be treating him.
No, I don't mean that.
He's not here to help us
build our awesome automobile.
That's why I feel sorry for him!
It's so sad, the entirety of the
United States is going to weep.
We need to hurry up and go
flex the Steam Gorilla at him.
The science team is pretty awful, huh?
I suppose that's just what
good friends they are.
We're ready to move out whenever!
We're moving out en masse to rescue Chrome!
All right.
Load up the science tools and the pesky
old farts who can't walk fast enough.
Senku, I don't think we can go.
We've thought about it.
Even with all the science equipment,
we could have just made multiple trips.
So why did you build this
so-called "automobile"?
You built it for those of us who
can't walk long distances.
We already know, Senku.
I don't care about that.
I just like making sciencey things.
We'll stay behind in Ishigami Village.
We don't want to get in your
way while you're in battle.
You'll be able to bring more
science tools with you that way.
But that's too dangerous.
Yeah. What if Tsukasa-kun's
army sends reinforcements?
You won't stand a chance.
We must all go together.
You can't stay behind!
Thank you, everyone.
But we aren't the least
bit worried about that.
Because...
Because you will defeat
the Tsukasa Empire first.
Isn't that right?
Yeah. Of course we will.
We'll fight together and return here.
Along with the victory flag
for the Kingdom of Science.
Lucky.
I wish I could drive, too.
The Steam Gorilla's holding up really well.
As long as we're on level ground.
It's a bit of a roundabout route,
but I've done several trips already,
so I know where all the flat roads are.
But even so...
It can't go up hills?!
We'll have to push it together!
The way the wobbler engine works,
it needs some momentum to keep turning.
Pushes
with
pump
Returns
on
momentum
We would have had more power if we'd
built a double-cylinder engine.
Trying to save time backfired on us.
More power?
All right.
There's more of a climb up ahead.
S-Senku...
He's got a really evil grin.
You can tell from his face
that he's up to something.
We're setting up camp beneath a cliff.
It's simplistic, but it's guerrilla warfare.
Put all our manufacturing at the bottom.
We'll hide as much of the smog
behind the trees as we can.
First, we need to figure out
where Chrome's being held.
Until then, there's nothing we can do.
But where do I begin?
Suika?!
Now's the time for Great Detective
Suika to make herself useful!
It's no use...
I can't find him anywhere.
Damn it!
I'm so bored, cooped up in this
prison of cave and bamboo!
What is he shouting about all of a sudden?
Chrome!
He's safe and well!
You put yourself in serious danger!
But well done, Suika.
They had so many guards, though.
We'll just charge in and murder them all!
That's the worst thing to do.
I don't know about murdering them,
but charging in might not
be a bad idea this time.
Ch-Ch-Charge in?!
I don't mind, as long as
I'm not the one doing it.
But that's crazy!
We're going to bust down
the bamboo prison by force.
We've got a mech on our side.
The monster of science
that is the Steam Gorilla.
We're going to give it an insane
upgrade and turn it into a tank.
We're modding my adorable little Steam
Gorilla, after all the work we put into it?!
"Adorable"?
Adorable isn't the right word.
It isn't adorable.
It's not adorable.
No, we're giving it a power-up.
Oh, really?
Then let's upgrade it!
Now! Now!
But Senku, how could we make it any better?
We're going to armor it like crazy
so it becomes a tank that we
can ram through the enemy.
In iron all around?
How could it even move?
It would be too damn heavy.
We need speed in order to use it as a ram.
Of course.
So what are we making the tank with?
Paper.
Hair?
Gods?
I get it!
A paper tank.
That would be nice and light.
What?!
We got a ton of weeds!
Does it really not matter
what kind of weeds they are?
Just about anything works.
We're going to boil all this grass
in sodium hydroxide to loosen it up.
Mecha Senku here!
If you're going to try this at home,
try using bleach or baking soda!
We take that boiled goo, wash it,
press it, and dry it.
It actually looks legit!
I never knew paper was so easy to make.
Paper
acquired!!
This'll make it much easier
to draw blueprints and stuff.
We wasted a lot of leather up until now.
What is that for?
Knows the value
of paper
Doesn't know the value of paper
What use is this flimsy stuff?
I hope you aren't going to suggest we make
a car with this feeble material, Senku.
Yeah, that's what I'm suggesting.
Wait, you aren't just making
a paper wall, are you?
Bingo. Ten billion points for you.
Lastly, we iron it out, and...
We have a paper shield.
Paper shield
acquired!!
Okay, now we glue these paper
shields all over the sides
and turn the Steam Gorilla into a tank.
Senku.
You may not know...
But a blow from a spearman can
bring down even a wooden shield.
I have a hard time believing in
your so-called paper shield.
I think so, too!
Oh?
That'll be the perfect test, then.
Wanna fight?
This is bad!
Senku and Kinro are in battle!
What?!
What is going on?
Man, and that spear Senku-chan asked for...
It's not for competitions, is it?
It's the real deal.
This is dangerous, Senku.
I can't—
It wouldn't be a test if you
didn't attack at full strength.
That's the rule.
According to you, the rules
are the rules, aren't they?
All right.
Then I won't hold back whatsoever.
Senku!
Senku won!
Kinro's spear fell apart.
The paper shield hasn't so much as dented!
With a paper wall? How?
No, wait.
I don't think he'll be able to
answer any questions for a while.
He's gone numb.
He stopped the blade,
but he still took the impact.
That wasn't just glue you were
painting onto the paper, was it?
Bingo. Ten billion points for you.
I painted molten plastic onto it.
Combine the flexibility of paper
with the rigidity of plastic, and...
We have carbon resin.
Plastic
Carbon Fiber
(Fiber-fortified plastic)
Fiber
Carbon fiber?!
I think I might have heard of it...
It's stupid light and stupid tough.
It's used in F1 car bodies and rockets.
It's the ultimate construction material,
with SS agility and SS defense.
Check out the Steam Gorilla!
It's ridiculously powered up!
It's starting to look really tough.
We made it a double steam
engine, front-wheel drive,
with insanely huge caterpillar-ish wheels.
We can do it,
so long as we have this tank
fortified with the ultimate material!
We could potentially ram into
the prison and destroy it,
saving Chrome without causing
any bloodshed at all!
I'm sure Suika told the others
where I'm being held, but...
Gotta go pee.
No, idiot! Don't go over there!
Shit!
This is...
A trap?
Coal is easy to obtain, as long
as you don't care about quality.
The next science we need to
be wary of, after gunpowder,
is a frontal assault using a steam engine.
A steam engine?
In this stone world?
Sooner or later, they'll get there.
Senku would do it.
Is that why you imprisoned him somewhere
so easy to attack by vehicle?
I see.
Chrome-kun is bait.
Senku puts on a cold act,
but he won't abandon his friends.
That's his fatal weakness.
Hey, hey, do you think...
Once we rescue Chrome,
we could use the Steam Gorilla tank
to wreck Tsukasa's army?
Then we might not even have to fight!
If it's still working after
we slam into the prison.
It's a one-time-use build,
only meant for saving Chrome.
Really?!
It's a one-shot surprise attack mech.
If they figure us out and take measures
against a vehicular assault, it's over.
Here, there...
Anti-vehicle traps everywhere!
So they're all screwed if they come
here hoping to save this idiot!
No! It's a trap, Senku!
Don't come to rescue me!
I have to let them all know.
Someone...
Damn, what am I saying?
Come rescue me?
What am I, a kid crying
for his mommy and daddy?
Hell no!
I'm going to save
Senku and the others.
It'd be such a waste to only use it once, though.
If we spent some time mounting a turret on it,
we could use it to take over
the miracle cave or something.
Quit talking in hypotheticals.
It's a waste of time.
But if Chrome were to escape on his
own, things would be quite different.
I'm going to escape on my own,
using the power of science!
That's right. I'm Chrome, the science user.
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.